Talk a
little bit about the anatomy of the bird.
And here we have a whole chicken.
These are the wingtips.
We call these the flats
and this part is the drum of the wing.
Here we have the breasts.
And if I turn it to the side,
you can see here
we have the thigh and the leg,
the back of the chicken.
You can see the little neck exposed here
and two little nodules that pop up.
Those are called oysters.
And they're the tenderest part of the leg
muscle.
Now for me to separate
the white meat from the dark meat
or the breasts from the legs,
I have to make a small incision.
Right at the back above the oyster.
I'd like to then
pick up the bird to stretch the skin,
and I line up that cut
with the skin that I'm stretching
and I draw my knife right across
so I can cut and separate that part
by not cutting any of the breast meat.
I like to do the same thing
on the other side, where I line up
the same cut here, stretching the skin
and cutting along here,
so I don't cut any of the breast meat.
And that's just lining it up,
just like that.
So here.
I almost have it all separated.
What I like to do now
is just crack and twist,
and I have in my one
hand the leg and thigh.
And on the other hand,
the breast also known as the crown.